# 🧮 Receipt Processor

This repository contains a simple webservice that processes receipts and provides an ability to calculate bonus points based on the receipt data.

## 🪧 Overview

The Receipt Processor is a simple RESTful API service that accepts receipt data, returns a newly generated id and calculates bonus points.
As in-memory storage solution the program is using a Go map object. The data does not persist restarts as per reqiurements.

#### Third-Party Packages

- The `httprouter` package is used for fast and efficient routing.
- The `alice` package is used for clear and readable middleware chaining.
- The `uuid` package is used to generate new ids.

## 🔍 Prerequisites

- Go 1.22.5
- Windows, macOS, or Linux operating system

## 🖥️ Run the Program

- Make sure Go is installed locally;
- Clone or fork this repository;
- In the project folder, run the following command:

```sh
 go run ./cmd/web
```

## ▶️ Usage

- Send a POST request to `/receipts/process` with a body of a receipt to be processed;
- Receive a JSON response containing unique id of the receipt;
- Send a GET request to `/receipts/{id}/points`, replacing `{id}` with the id from the previous step;
- Receive a JSON response containing the calculated points for the receipt.

## 💡API Specification

### Endpoint: Process Receipts

- Path: `/receipts/process`
- Method: `POST`
- Payload: Receipt JSON
- Response: JSON containing an id for the receipt.

Description:

Takes in a JSON receipt and returns a JSON object with an ID generated by uuid package.

Example Response:

```json
{ "id": "7fb1377b-b223-49d9-a31a-5a02701dd310" }
```

### Endpoint: Get Points

- Path: `/receipts/{id}/points`
- Method: `GET`
- Response: A JSON object containing the number of points awarded.

A simple Getter endpoint that looks up the receipt by the ID and returns an object specifying the points awarded.

Example Response:

```json
{ "points": 32 }
```

## 🧱 Application Architecture

This project is organized into packages, such as web, handlers, helpers and utils.
Main package contains main point of entry, routes and middleware.

- **Main package**:

  - **Routes**. Map incoming HTTP requests to their corresponding handler functions.
  - **Middleware**:
    - **logRequest**: Logs each incoming HTTP request with details such as IP, method, and URL;
    - **recoverPanic**: Catches any panics during request processing, closes the connection, and returns an internal server error response.

- **Handlers package**:

  - **ProcessReceipt** decodes JSON payload, validates input, sends the input to ReceiptFactory, inserts new receipt into the Go map, and returns the newly created id;
  - **GetReceiptPoints** gets receipt id from the request, sends the id into the CalculatePoints function, and encodes the received points to send back to the user;
  - **ReceiptFactory** constructs a new receipt object and returns it.

- **Helpers package**:
  - **ServerError** handles internal server errors;
  - **ClientError** handles client-side errors;
  - **NotFound** sends a 404 Not Found response;
  - **DecodeJSON** parses JSON data from HTTP requests into Go structs;
  - **EncodeJSON** serializes Go structs into JSON format for HTTP responses;
  - **GetIdFromParams** extracts and returns an identifier from URL parameters.

**Utils package** includes all functions necessary to calculate bonus points.

## 🚀 Testing

Go's built-in `testing` package is used for testing the utility functions that are responsible for calculating receipt points. Test cases are organized into tables for better readability and maintainability.

### Run the Tests

In the project folder, run the following command:

```sh
 go test ./...
```

### Continuous Integration

In order to automate the testing, a GitHub Actions workflow is set up. The workflow executes all existing tests on every push to the repository. This helps to ensure code quality and catch issues early on.

**Workflow overview**:

- get the latest code from the repository;
- configure the Go environment with the specified version;
- install project dependencies using `go mod tidy`;
- run all tests using `go test ./...`.
